Basic Soul Food Collard Greens

Ingredients: 

4-6 bunches of collard cleaned and steamed 
5 slices of bacon 
1 smoked ham hock 
1 large chopped onion 
seasoning salt to taste 
1 bunch of green onions (optional) 
black pepper to taste 
7 cups of water
A picture of this dish is coming.


Instructions: 

Lay collard greens on top of each other, (no more then 4 at a time) roll and then cut in half with a knife. 
Cut even smaller if you have large leaves. 
Line the bottom of a large stock pot with the bacon. 
Cook on medium heat until done, obtaining as much bacon grease as possible. 
Add the water to the stock pot and the grease and bring to a boil. 
Now add the 1/2 of the chopped onion, ham hock, pepper and salt to taste. 
Let mixture boil for 10 minutes. 
Add the collard greens, other half of the onions and more salt and pepper to taste if desired to the stock pot. 
Rapidly boil for 45 minutes. 
Reduce heat and let simmer for 4-6 hours. 
Serve with green onions. 


Collard, Mustard, Kale or Turnip Greens

Ingredients: 

1 large bag of collard, kale, mustard or turnip greens, 
1 package smoked turkey necks. 
You can also mix the greens if you like. 

Instructions: 

After rinsing turkey necks, 
add to large pot filled half way with water and let boil for 25-30 minutes. 
Add soul food seasoning to pot as accent to season the pot (enhance flavor). 
Pick stems from greens and wash several times in cold water until greens are clean (water is no longer dirty and greens are no longer gritty), 
cut greens up and place in boiling water. 
Allow greens to cook for an hour or until nice and tender. 
Serve with fried chicken and macaroni and cheese and you have good soul food eatin'. 


Virginia's Quick Greens

Ingredients: 

1-2 bags of greens (whatever type you prefer) 
1/4 cup apple cider vinegar 
3 hot peppers (chopped) 
1/2 cup chopped onion 
pinch of sugar 
smoked meat (whatever you prefer for added flavor) 
chicken soup base (creamy) 

Instructions: 

Put washed greens in a pot. 
Pour vinegar over greens. 
Add hot peppers, onion, and sugar, allow to set. 
This opens the greens up so they will accept flavor and be tender. 
Mix chicken soup base and hot water together; to taste. 
Pour over greens. 
There should be enough liquid to at least cover the greens. 
Boil for 1 hour or until you feel the greens are done (nice and tender). 

Comments: The key ingredient is the soup base. 


Fried Yams/Sweet Potatoes

Ingredients: 

1/2 Cup of Oil 
3 Sweet Potatoes Washed and Thinly Sliced 
1 Cup of Sugar 
1/2 Teaspoons Nutmeg 
2 Tablespoons Butter 
3 Tablespoons Lemon Juice 

Instructions: 

Fry sweet potatoes and or yams till they are golden brown. 
This tends to work better if you preheat the cooking oil, lay the cooked sweet potatoes aside and drain them on folded paper towels. 
Mix the sugar and nutmeg with 2 tablespoons of butter and 3 tablespoons of lemon juice. 
Heat till melting. 
You want a warm sauce, then place the sweet potatoes/or yams in a deep dish casserole. 
Pore the sauce over and serve. 

Fried Cabbage

Ingredients: 

1 Head Cabbage 
6 Strips Bacon 
1 Tablespoon Butter 
Pinch of Salt 

Instructions: 

Shred Cabbage. 
Place in pot of water with salt and bring to boil. 
When at boil remove from heat and drain. 
In a skillet fry bacon. 
Crumple cooked bacon on a plate. 
Using the bacon drippings and butter fry the drained cabbage. 
Add bacon to cabbage and simmer for 5 minutes. 


Granny's Fried Corn

Ingredients: 

6-8 Large Ears of sweet Yellow corn (Frozen Corn may be substituted) 
2 Large Green Peppers Diced 
1/2 cup all purpose flour 
1 tablespoon sugar 
salt and pepper to taste 
1/2 cup shortening (cooking oil may be substituted) 

Instructions: 

Shuck and de-silk the ears of corn, then rinse. 
Using a sharp knife remove the kernels from the cob, scraping to get it all. 
Mix green peppers, flour, sugar, salt and pepper together coating the corn well with the mixture. 
Heat shortening or oil until one kernel dropped in it sizzles. 
Put your corn in the skillet and fry until the corn is tender and the flour starts to brown. 
Stir frequently to prevent the flour from sticking. 
HINT: You may want to cover the skillet with a lid to help tenderize the corn evenly. 

Comments: If this recipe is followed as written you will have one of the best side dishes to go with that special meat or just good old Sunday Dinner. 


Deborah's Louisiana Fried Spicy Cabbage

Ingredients: 

2 pounds finely diced cabbage 
1 pound finely chopped bacon 
1 medium onion 
2 tablespoon Red Pepper Flakes 
1/2 teaspoon salt (optional) 
1/2 teaspoon black pepper 

Instructions: 

Fry bacon until crisp and well browned. 
Add chopped onion and stir until limp. 
Add pepper flakes, cabbage, salt & pepper. 
Stirring well so that all the cabbage is coated. 
Cover and cook over low heat until cabbage is limp and tender. 

Easy Stove Top Candied Sweet Potatoes

Ingredients: 

3-4 large sweet potatoes 
2 cups of white sugar 
1 stick of butter (not margarine) 
2 teaspoons vanilla 
2 teaspoons bourbon (optional) 
dash of nutmeg and cinnamon 

Instructions: 

Peel and slice potatoes. 
Rinse well. 
Use a clean dish towel to pat dry. 
(This is IMPORTANT!). Put the potatoes in a pot and pour remaining ingredients over potatoes. 
Cover with a tight fitting lid (or aluminum foil). 
Cook on a very low flame 45 minutes to an hour until the potatoes are tender and syrup forms. 

Green Bean Casserole

Ingredients: 

2 cans french cut green beans 
1 can of Durkee  onions 
1 cup of whole milk 
1 teaspoon ground pepper (or to your liking) 
1 can of Campbell's  cream of mushroom soup 

Instructions: 

Mix green beans, milk, pepper, soup and 3/4 can of Durkee  onions. 
Bake at 375 degrees for 35 minutes stirring frequently. 
Add the remainder of onions and bake 5 minutes. 
Serve hot or cold. (great for bar-b-que's) 

Comments: Can be eaten with turkey dinner or just something off the grill. 


Old-Fashioned Cole Slaw

Ingredients: 

1 quart finely shredded cabbage 
3/4 cup sour cream 
1/2 teaspoon dry mustard 
2 teaspoon sugar 
1/2 teaspoon cider vinegar 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Instructions: 

Blend all ingredients (except the cabbage) and whip for 1/2 a minute to mix thoroughly. 
Pour over shredded cabbage and toss to mix well.

--END--